updated triage state (#557)
returntocorp/semgrep-docs: docs/semgrep-app/findings.md

        <li>A bug within Semgrep itself. See the list of <a href="https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep/issues">Semgrep issues</a> to file a bug report.</li>
    </ul>
    </dd>
</dl>

## Working with findings

After a finding is generated, developers can:

* **Fix the issue detected by the finding.** This is Semgrep's primary goal. In this case, the rule produces a **true positive** finding (such as a security issue) as intended and developers must refactor or address the code such that the rule no longer matches it.
* **View the Semgrep rule and the matching code.** For developers aiming to understand their team's security posture, Semgrep provides a top-level report view through the Dashboard and a list view of findings in the Findings page that can be filtered by repository, rule, branch, or triage action.
* **Triage the finding.** If the finding is not useful or important, it can be deprioritized through triaging. Triage actions include ignoring and reopening. Triaging a finding to ignore it is one method to handle **false positives** without changing the rule or code.

> * **Remove the rule or code that generated the finding**. There are cases where Semgrep scans a file not meant for scanning or when a rule is irrelevant. You can remove the rule from the Rule board or add the file to the ignore list. To remove a rule, see [Managing triage states](../findings/#managing-triage-states-bulk-triage).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Remove the rule or code that generated the finding.** There are cases where Semgrep scans a file not meant for scanning or when a rule is irrelevant. You can remove the rule from the Rule board or add the file to the ignore list. To remove a rule, see [Managing triage states](../findings/#managing-triage-states-bulk-triage).
```

![Screenshot of Semgrep App Findings page ](../img/app-findings-overview.png)<br />

A **finding** is the core result of Semgrep's analysis. Findings are generated when a Semgrep rule matches a piece of code.

A finding can be categorized **based on the issue or code it detects**:

* anti-patterns
* security vulnerabilities (such as dangerous function usage)
* business or logic bugs

> * matches based on your own custom rules (such as organization-specific authentication logic)

Author: This one is just a noun ("Matches") with a very long noun modifier phrase ("based on your own custom rules")

> Semgrep rules provide a metadata schema to identify common categories such as the above. Semgrep findings include a `message` field that describes the security issue or bug that must be resolved. Findings may also provide an `autofix` field that fixes the issue by creating a suggestion within your source code management (SCM) tool, such as GitHub or GitLab.

Author: (Fixed!)

> Semgrep rules provide a metadata schema to identify common categories such as the above. Semgrep findings include a `message` field that describes the security issue or bug that must be resolved. Findings may also provide an `autofix` field that fixes the issue by creating a suggestion within your source code management (SCM) tool, such as GitHub or GitLab.

Reviewer: Optional, feel free to ignore.

> Another way of categorizing findings is **based on the validity of of the match**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another way of categorizing findings is **based on the validity of the match**:
```

<dl>
    <dt>True positive</dt>
    <dd>Rules are written to match a certain code pattern. A true positive is a genuine match. The rule is capturing code as intended.</dd>
    <dt>False positive</dt>
    <dd>A false positive is a mismatch between the intended purpose of the rule and the code it matched. A finding is generated but does not meet the rule's intended need. Rules with a high false positivity rate are said to be <strong>noisy</strong>.</dd>
    <dt>False negative</dt>

>     <dd>A false negative is a finding that should have been found by a rule, but was not. This could be due to a flaw in the rule's logic. See <a href="../release-notes/#additions-1"><code>semgrep shouldafound</code></a>.</dd>

Author: @adamkvitek FYI - shouldafound is a specific type of issue, but there can be more :) 

@chmccreery Regarding bugs in semgrep, I think we should show them the github page for issues ([https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep/issues](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep/issues)) because it may be a known issue. Does this work for you?

</dl>

## Working with findings

After a finding is generated, developers can:

* **Fix the issue detected by the finding.** This is Semgrep's primary goal. In this case, the rule produces a **true positive** finding (such as a security issue) as intended and developers must refactor or address the code such that the rule no longer matches it.

> * **View the Semgrep rule and the matching code.** For developers aiming to understand their team's security posture, Semgrep provides a top-level report view through the Dashboard and a list view of findings in the Findings page that can be filtered by repository, rule, branch, or triage action.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **View the Semgrep rule and the matching code**. For developers aiming to understand their team's security posture, Semgrep provides a top-level report view through the Dashboard and a list view of findings in the Findings page that can be filtered by repository, rule, branch, or triage action.
```

> * **Triage the finding.** If the finding is not useful or important, it can be deprioritized through triaging. Triage actions include commenting and ignoring. This is one method to reduce **false positives**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Triage the finding**. If the finding is not useful or important, it can be deprioritized through triaging. Triage actions include commenting and ignoring. This is one method to reduce **false positives**.
```

> * **Triage the finding.** If the finding is not useful or important, it can be deprioritized through triaging. Triage actions include commenting and ignoring. This is one method to reduce **false positives**.

Author: (Added this in, thank you!)

> * **Remove the rule or code that generated the finding**. There are cases where Semgrep scans a file not meant for scanning or when a rule is irrelevant. You can remove the rule from the Rule board or add the file to the ignore list.

Author: @chmccreery I will add this step in! But AFAIK I don't think there's an easy way from app to trigger a scan at will.

* **Create a Jira ticket from the finding (for Enterprise/Team Tier users.)** For findings that require more extensive refactoring, a ticket can be created in Jira to track its resolution.

:::tip
* An additional method to address false positives is to improve the rule. Create [test cases](../writing-rules/testing-rules) to ensure that the rule performs as intended.

> * If a rule from Semgrep Registry is useful but also captures too many false positives, you can reach out to support@semgrep.dev. This will assist rule-writing efforts and improve the quality of rules that you run. 

Author: @adamkvitek This is referring to our developer sentiment feature :)

> * If a rule from Semgrep Registry is useful but also captures too many false positives, you can reach out to support@semgrep.dev. This will assist rule-writing efforts and improve the quality of rules that you run. 

Reviewer: (Feel free to ignore.) Maybe we can link some developer sentiment doc here. :-)

![Screenshot of Semgrep App Findings page ](../img/app-findings-overview.png)<br />

A **finding** is the core result of Semgrep's analysis. Findings are generated when a Semgrep rule matches a piece of code.

A finding can be categorized **based on the issue or code it detects**:

* Anti-patterns
* Security vulnerabilities (such as dangerous function usage)
* Business or logic bugs
* Matches based on your own custom rules (such as organization-specific authentication logic)

> Semgrep rules provide a metadata schema to identify common categories such as the above. Semgrep findings include a `message` field that describes the security issue or bug that must be resolved. Findings may also provide a `fix` field that fixes the issue by creating a suggestion within your source code management (SCM) tool, such as GitHub or GitLab.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Semgrep rules provide a metadata schema to identify common categories such as the above. Semgrep findings include a `message` field that describes the security issue or bug found in matching code. Findings may also provide a `fix` field that fixes the issue by creating a suggestion within your source code management (SCM) tool, such as GitHub or GitLab.
```

? (just presuming that the issue is not necessarily a “must solve”)

Another way of categorizing findings is **based on the validity of the match**:

<dl>
    <dt>True positive</dt>
    <dd>Rules are written to match a certain code pattern. A true positive is a genuine match. The rule is capturing code as intended.</dd>
    <dt>False positive</dt>
    <dd>A false positive is a mismatch between the intended purpose of the rule and the code it matched. A finding is generated but does not meet the rule's intended need. Rules with a high false positivity rate are said to be <strong>noisy</strong>.</dd>
    <dt>False negative</dt>
    <dd>A false negative is a finding that should have been found by a rule, but was not. This can happen for two reasons:
    <ul>
        <li>A flaw in the rule's logic. See <a href="../release-notes/#additions-1"><code>semgrep shouldafound</code></a>.</li>

>         <li>A bug within semgrep itself.</li>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        <li>A bug within Semgrep itself.</li>
```

    </ul>
    </dd>
</dl>

## Working with findings

After a finding is generated, developers can:

* **Fix the issue detected by the finding.** This is Semgrep's primary goal. In this case, the rule produces a **true positive** finding (such as a security issue) as intended and developers must refactor or address the code such that the rule no longer matches it.
* **View the Semgrep rule and the matching code.** For developers aiming to understand their team's security posture, Semgrep provides a top-level report view through the Dashboard and a list view of findings in the Findings page that can be filtered by repository, rule, branch, or triage action.

> * **Triage the finding.** If the finding is not useful or important, it can be deprioritized through triaging. Triage actions include ignoring and reopening. Triaging a finding to ignore it is one method to handle **false positives** without changing the rule or code.

Reviewer 2: I love the active and direct-action sentences that start each bullet here!

| 30-day findings retention | Community (Free) |
| 1-year findings retention | Team/Enterprise |

## Viewing data on the Findings page

### Navigating to the Findings page

1. Sign in to Semgrep App.
2. The **Findings** page can be found on the left sidebar.

### Understanding the Findings page

The Findings page displays the following fields:

| Field       | Description  |
| ----------  | ------------ |
| **Severity**    | The impact of a finding. Possible values: <ul><li>Low</li><li>Medium</li><li>High </li><li>Critical</li></ul> |
| **Finding**     | The file, line, and branch of the match in the code. Clicking this field brings you to the exact location in the codebase. |
| **Project**     | The name of the repository where the finding was found. Clicking this field brings you to the project’s URL. |

> | **Rule**        | The name of the rule that  matched with the code. Clicking this field brings you to the rule’s entry in the [Rule Registry](https://semgrep.dev/r). |

Reviewer 2: Regarding the link to Registry, what about for rules that aren’t in the Registry, like private rules or rules hosted somewhere else?

| **Introduced**  | The time when this finding was first found. Clicking the header row sorts the table by latest or earliest findings. |

> | **Status**      | Refers to a finding’s triage state. Refer to the following table to understand triage states. |

Reviewer 2: You could link to the “following table” since in a future docs edit, these sections may not be so close to each other.

Author: Will do!

Semgrep App assists in the triage process through the use of **comments** and **triage states**:

| Triage state | Description |
| -----------  | ------------ |
| **Open** | Open findings require action, such as rewriting the code for vulnerabilities, or refactoring the code. Findings are open by default. |
| **Ignored** | Findings that are ignored will not be acted upon. This may be a false positive or deprioritized issue. Findings can be ignored through Semgrep App (see [Managing triage states](#managing-triage-states-bulk-triage)). There are two types of ignored findings: <dl><dt>Ignored - App</dt><dd>The ignore status was set within Semgrep App.</dd><dt>Ignored - Code</dt><dd>The ignore status was set from the code itself. Using a `nosemgrep` annotation within the code falls under this type.</dd></dl> |
| **Fixed** | Fixed findings are findings that were detected in a previous scan but no longer trigger a match in the most recent scan. The rule that detected the finding and the code that triggered the match must both be active in the most recent scan. |

> Findings can also be **removed**. A removed finding does not count towards a fix rate or the total number of findings. A finding is considered removed if it is not found in the most recent scan due to either of the following conditions:

Reviewer 2: Could it also be that the matching code (but not the entire file containing it) was removed?

Author: (See the following comment. I am resolving this as I addressed the concern in the note below.)

* You removed the rule from the Rule Board.
* You deleted the file containing the code.

> * The file is included in a `.semgrepignore` file.

Reviewer 2: Could it also be that a //semgrepignore comment was added to (above?) the matching line?

Author: (I assume you mean the comment annotation `nosemgrep`.) 

There is actually a difference in ignoring via comment (`// nosemgrep`) and ignoring via file. //nosemgrep is considered a triage action, so Semgrep still scans the code, makes the finding record, and ignores it. It appears as "Ignored - Code" in the findings page. For that reason, I don't include adding a 'nosemgrep' comment to the code.

I did bring up before (a long time ago) that there's one word (ignore) for two different things. Maybe "muted" is a term we'd like to reexplore, but right now, this is how the product works.

Reviewer 2: Yes, I meant `// nosemgrep` :)

Author: (Resolving since for now //nosemgrep does not do the same thing as adding a file in .semgrepignore :) )

> 1. Sign in to Semgrep App.

Reviewer: Commenting on line above (related issue to why I comment here: https://github.com/isaacs/github/issues/1655)

Blocking: Change `## Viewing data in the Findings page` to `## Viewing data on the Findings page`

Semgrep App assists in the triage process through the use of **comments** and **triage states**:

| Triage state | Description |
| -----------  | ------------ |
| **Open** | Open findings require action, such as rewriting the code for vulnerabilities, or refactoring the code. Findings are open by default. |
| **Ignored** | Findings that are ignored will not be acted upon. This may be a false positive or deprioritized issue. Findings can be ignored through Semgrep App (see [Managing triage states](#managing-triage-states-bulk-triage)). There are two types of ignored findings: <dl><dt>Ignored - App</dt><dd>The ignore status was set within Semgrep App.</dd><dt>Ignored - Code</dt><dd>The ignore status was set from the code itself. Using a `nosemgrep` annotation within the code falls under this type.</dd></dl> |
| **Fixed** | Fixed findings are findings that were detected in a previous scan but no longer trigger a match in the most recent scan. The rule that detected the finding and the code that triggered the match must both be active in the most recent scan. |

> Findings can also be **removed**. A removed finding does not count towards a fix rate or total number of findings. A finding is considered removed if it is not found in the most recent scan due to either of the following conditions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Findings can also be **removed**. A removed finding does not count towards a fix rate or the total number of findings. A finding is considered removed if it is not found in the most recent scan due to either of the following conditions:
```

| -----------  | ------------ |
| **Open** | Open findings require action, such as rewriting the code for vulnerabilities, or refactoring the code. Findings are open by default. |
| **Ignored** | Findings that are ignored will not be acted upon. This may be a false positive or deprioritized issue. Findings can be ignored through Semgrep App (see [Managing triage states](#managing-triage-states-bulk-triage)). |

> | **Fixed** | Fixed findings are findings that were detected in a previous scan but no longer trigger a match in the most recent scan. The rule that detected the finding and the code that triggered the match must both be active in the previous and most recent scan. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| **Fixed** | Fixed findings are findings that were detected in a previous scan but no longer trigger a match in the most recent scan. The rule that detected the finding and the code that triggered the match must both be active in the most recent scan. |
```

4. Click **Open**.
5. Optional: Include a **comment** explaining the action.

> To **fix a finding**, update, or refactor the code such that the Semgrep rule pattern no longer matches the code.

Reviewer 3: This is great! Can we also add something like:
```suggestion
To **fix a finding**, update, or refactor the code such that the Semgrep rule pattern no longer matches the code.

There are two ways to **remove a finding** altogether: either remove the rule that found it or remove the file it is in from the list of files scanned by semgrep. Then, re-scan the branch or pull request containing the issue. The issue should then be removed.
```

Author: (Have added this in!)

To **create a ticket**:

1. Set up a Jira integration through the [Integrations](https://semgrep.dev/docs/semgrep-app/integrations/) guide.
2. Click on the **three-dot icon** of the entry.
3. Click **Create issue with Jira**.

## Deduplicating findings

Semgrep App scans are performed on both mainline (trunk) and non-mainline branches. Findings are generated on a per-branch basis. Duplicate findings arise due to scans occurring on the same code in different branches.

There are two types of scans:

<dl>
    <dt>Full scan</dt>
    <dd>Scans the repository in its entirety. It is recommended to perform full scans on mainline branches, such as `master` or `main`. This scan is performed on a scheduled basis.</dd>
    <dt>Diff-aware scan</dt>
    <dd>Diff-aware scans are performed on non-mainline branches, such as in pull requests and merge requests. Diff scans traverse the repository's files based on the commit where the branch diverged from the mainline branch (or diverged from the last commit that was fully scanned?)</dd>
</dl>

> If a finding is fixed in one branch (such as `main`) but open in another (such as `production`), and the code fixes are present in both branches, initiate a scan on the branch(es) with open findings to mark the findings as fixed.

Reviewer 2: Would Semgrep mark these open findings as now fixed, or does the user have to mark them? I’m not quite sure from the last phrase.

Author: Semgrep will mark the findings as fixed. I will add this in.

4. Click **Open**.
5. Optional: Include a **comment** explaining the action.

> To **close findings**, do one of the two options:

Reviewer: Blocking: 

Reffering to these lines:
<img width="1129" alt="Screenshot 2022-06-20 at 13 41 50" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/26669307/174594241-3917fca1-82a3-446a-8535-9deca3a25e4d.png">

Change both occurences of `one-by-one` to `one by one`.

Reference: https://dictionary.cambridge.org/dictionary/english/one-by-one

Author: (Added!)

To **remove a rule** from the Rule Board:

1. Click **Rule Board**.
2. Click the ruleset that contains the rule.

> 3. Click the garbage can icon next to the rule you're deleting.

Author: Added.

To **view comments**:

* Click the **speech balloon** next to the finding’s status.

## Creating Jira tickets from findings

> Semgrep supports the creation of Jira tickets from a finding. This enables developers and project managers to relevant issues within their own project or bug tracking environment. This feature is available to Team/Enterprise Tier users.

Author: I totally missed that. Thank you!

To **create a ticket**:

1. Set up a Jira integration through the [Integrations](https://semgrep.dev/docs/semgrep-app/integrations/) guide.
2. Click on the **three-dot icon** of the entry.
3. Click **Create issue with Jira**.

## Deduplicating findings

Semgrep App scans are performed on both mainline (trunk) and non-mainline branches. Findings are generated on a per-branch basis. Duplicate findings arise due to scans occurring on the same code in different branches.

There are two types of scans:

<dl>
    <dt>Full scan</dt>

>     <dd>Scans the repository in its entirety. Full scans are performed on mainline branches, such as `master` or `main`. This scan is performed on a scheduled basis.</dd>

Author: Hi.  We'll probably go with "It is recommended to perform full scans only on mainline branches." (Not being pedantic, I hope - it's based on style guidelines, see below.) 

Based on my understanding, users can still run a full scan on a non-mainline branch especially now that we've given the option to run semgrep login and the near-future improvements on branch awareness from CLI, so only running scans on mainline branches is a recommended workflow.

(Regarding usage of "should" see: [Google style guide - "should"](https://developers.google.com/style/word-list#should).)

>     <dd>Scans the repository in its entirety. Full scans are performed on mainline branches, such as `master` or `main`. This scan is performed on a scheduled basis.</dd>

Author: (Added this in.)
